Starcraft game begins in a "Fog of War". Users can't see where the opponents are in the beginning. They can't even see where the resources are. A player must "scout" the map using their units to reveal the map.

After playing enough games, a player has an idea of where they should mine the resources and where they should expand. They would scout the most dangerous places to see if the opponent is placed there and adjust the expansion strategy accordingly. Without the fog of war, the game would be easy (if only one person has the vision since it would still be hard if all player had the same vision) since a player can see everything the opponent is planning. I think this "fog of war" is one of the aspects that makes the game exciting.

Navigating through our careers kind of feels like we're in a fog of war. We don't really know where to go so we just kind of guess where the resources would be and try to expand there. It causes anxiety because we know we want to expand, but don't know where or how. So, we just try to "macro" as much as possible and leverage our "micro" skills and build our units according to our strengths and experiences. This macro probably corresponds to our general education and micro is maybe college major or career specialty.

The main point I'm trying to make isn't actually about life lessons that Starcraft teaches. It's about navigating uncertainty when uncertainty is guaranteed. Based on my experience, the key is our friends. Fog of war no longer mattered when I had an ally. We depended on each other to scout and collect resources and build units accordingly without worrying about a single point of failure. It's becomes more enjoyable to share strategies and coordinate attack/defense. Why is this more enjoyable than a single player mode? I'm not sure, maybe it's because we're social animals and there's an exponential decay of anxiety and exponential growth of excitement when we share.